## Participants

- Alois Reitbauer
- Bogdan Drutu
- Sergey Kanzhelev
- Erika Arnold
- Ted Young
- Reiley
- Yuri Shkuro



## Decision to make specs public

Alois asked whether anyone objects making the specs public. People uniformely agreed to officially share the specs

## Test Suite

Reiley did a demo of the current state of the harness. 

Yuri: How to control the behaviour of the harness? 
Sergey: We will trigger different URL for different behaviour
Yuri: Makes sense, but not currently part of PR

Yuri: Can we make it simpler to only use a single language
Reiley and Sergey: Agreed?

Yuri: CLI should be primary goal as it is easy to integrate into Continuous Build systems. 

Yuri: Best case we use a Docker image to run the tests. 

Yuri: Did we discuss having shared libraries for parsing
Sergey: So far we did not discuss. Opencensus can be the lib for us
Alois: Fabian showed a library last time. 
Bogdan: Where do we put - like an 

*We decided to move all the code over to Node and also provide it as a Docker image* 

## Discussion about recorded flag

Details are in https://github.com/w3c/distributed-tracing/pull/142. We decided that people put down their use cases again regarding what they need to pass on and also what
information they are going the respect from other services.   

We will put this on the agenda for the next meeting again. 








