# W3C Working Group
- Alois met with Wendy, we will need to review this with the W3C technical working group.
- For trace-context to become an official W3C standard, members will need to fill in a patent commitment document. Alois would prefer to trigger this now so that we don't have to wait later on.
- We will remove the names from the draft because the W3C wants us to. Usually only editors names are shown. Sergey will move these into the meeting notes
- Drafts are hard to handle with multiple PRs open. Alois recommends that we have one master version and one working version. Minor changes should be made to the working version. Other working groups do this: most discussions take place in issues, and the editors make changes to the master version based on these discussions. There's some way to do this more effectively through Travis builds.

# Upcoming meetings
- There's the upcoming tracing workshop meeting in Austria on May 2nd and 3rd. Alois is looking to add tracing data formats to the list of topics.
- There's a W3C meeting occuring the week after the tracing workshop. Alois will go, but they'll just want a basic update on our progress
- There's a W3C TPAC meeting October 22nd - 26th in Lyon, France. Alois suggests that we all meet there to discuss the standard and engage with other working groups.
- Alois suggests that we host a tracing / trace-context meeting sometime this fall or winter in North America.

# Headers
- Sergey has modified the headers to ensure that they're IETF-compliant (header names, encodings, max sizes, etc.)
- Should we use parameterized lists? No, we will use dictionaries instead as these better fit our objectives.
- Still need to copy / paste some of the W3C boilerplate text. Sergey will do this.
- Some basic hygene issues around old open issues. Jonah has some old ones, Alois will ask what he wants to do with these. Sergey has some correlation-context issues that we'll keep open but will tag as being separate. Adrian has some open ones as well.

# Testbed
- Yuri has completed an early version. It can be run easily with Docker to test an implementation across multiple nodes.
- The tests are currently BSD licensed, there's some concern that adding agents to the testbed will cause the license to spread to their code. We need to follow up to try to switch the license to Apache 2. Sergey and Alois are pinging Wendy - our suspicion is that while specs need to be BSD licensed, tests do not. In the worst case we can move some of this code to another repo with another license or ask implementors to re-implement parts of it (annoying, could introduce issues).
- One open question: how do we handle "participation modes"? For example, vendors will likely have scenarios where they explicitly want to break and then link a trace (such as when tracing edge services). How do we define this for the tests and pass / fail cases? We think that it should be set on startup.
- Another open question: should the reference implementation look at the trace-state? We haven't decided the format of the header yet and thus don't have any tests. Sergey suggested the implementation of the test case should drive the implementation, Yuri will take point on this.
