# Meeting Information
* Date: 2017/02/27 @ 2:30 PM PDT / 11:30 PM CET
* [Recording](https://zoom.us/recording/play/lYNM3N7OWaEa8hAmSpojXD-V9KN0RfefnM_rfneaBwgDKhgmCBvlcDDPqPe3b3eP)

# Attendees
* Alois Reitbauer - Dynatrace
* Wendy Seltzer - W3C
* Sergey Kanzhelev - Microsoft
* Chris Erway - SolarWinds
* Jonah Kowall - Cisco AppDynamics
* Adrian Cole _ Pivotal/Zipkin
* Ted Young - Lightstep 
* Victor Soares - New Relic
* Morgan McLean - Google

# Agenda
* Charter review, next steps
* TraceContext - what are the open issues, next steps

# Notes
* **Charter review, next steps**
    * Alois walks through the [charter](https://github.com/w3c/distributed-tracing/blob/master/charter.html)
    * Two main points:
        * Way to propagate vendor specific tracing info across tools
        * Standardized and extensible format to share trace data
    * Wendy confirms that the scope of the charter sets the outer bound of what the working group undertakes. If the charter is too broad, legal reviews will not allow companies to join since the work done under the charter cannot be patentable. People should be willing and able to make the patent commitments required to participate.
    * Timeline - Starting April 1 - This is a rough start date. Charters can run for 2 years.
    * Team contact - this is a W3C rep. We don't have one yet since we're not chartered.
    * Meetings
        * bi-weekly meetings should be a good cadence. Working async via github between meetings.
        * Face-to-face - there's an annual W3C meeting and then the quarterly meetings we've been having already.
    * Scope
        * Alois describes the context for the scope and what's driving the new needs for interop.
        * Goal is to keep it brief focused on what we're trying to solve
    * Out of Scope
        * Don't want to define language specific APIs. Not really possible to do this under W3C. There's work under CNCF with OpenTracing
        * No data analysis techniques or algorithms
    * Success criteria
        * This is boiler plate W3C with a tweak: Alois raised the bar to call for at least 3 independent implementations.
        * What's the implication of bumping from 2 to 3?
        * It can possibly delay moving the process forward since it involves more moving parts.
        * Implementations can be from anybody, not just members
        * We should have a test suite to test the implementations
        * Sergey makes the point that OpenCensus and SolarWinds are already involved.
        * Chris makes the point that there were changes since the last meeting that OpenCensus would still need to make
        * Agreement that a test suite is needed
    * Deliverables
        * We agreed that we should split out the specs for Trace Context and Correlation Context.
        * 3 parts: Trace Context, Correlation Context, Trace Interchange Format
        * Trace Context
            * The draft is linked there. Waiting on PR.
            * Expected date changed to Q2 2019. (The correlation context date should be updated as well)
    * Other Deliverables
        * Use cases.
        * List of recommended vendor identifiers. The goal of this is to prevent collision in naming between vendors. This wouldn't be official.
            * Adrian asked - are there other works that contain a vendor registry? Did they start out formal or informal?
            * Wendy - There are a couple of ways: wiki, page in Github, more formal document that working group owns.
            * Wendy will share a discussion where these options are listed.
    * Timelines
        * April 2018 - The first chartered call will take place in April
        * May - first face-to-face meeting
        * See charter for the timeline.
        * Charter should be kept up to date. It's the living part of the charter document. What's the formal process to update the timeline? Does it require a more formal charter review?
            * Wendy confirms, doesn't require review. You can also update timeline in other pages.
        * The timeline helps people understand when they can implement a spec.
    * Coordination
        * Mostly boilerplate code from the W3C template
        * Only changes: changed links to the process model for 2018
        * Coordination with other W3C groups
            * We created an issue with the Web Performance Working Group. No reponse yet but makes sense to work with them.
            * No other W3C groups overlap
            * IETF - Alois is starting conversation with IETF
    * The rest of the doc is boiler plate
    * Patent Policy
        * This is a royalty free policy meant to ensure that core standards can be used without royalty payment. This prevents folks from creating patents on the basics necessary to implement the standard.
        * Everyone committing to work in this mode is saying that they are committing their patents royalty free if they apply to the core technology. Enhancements can be patentable.
        * Basically, what this means is that nobody is filing patents on any of the headers we're using.
    * If nobody has problems with the charter, we can move forward with getting chartered. Alois wanted everybody on the call to review before kicking off the formal process.
        * Does anybody have any problems with things as exist?
        * Victor asks - what are the formal next steps between now and April?
            * Wendy posted the steps in the [charter github issue](https://github.com/w3c/distributed-tracing/issues/60#issuecomment-368560650).
            * Also describes who can be members.
            * Encouraged for everybody to be members since W3C is sponsoring this.
        * Sergey - When the working group becomes official is participation limited?
            * Wendy - Folks need to have patent commitment reviews. If we're getting commitments from nonmembers, we need to get them to make a licensed commitment.
            * So a signed CLA would suffice?
            * The more usual process is for membership and invited expert, it's not standard to get PRs from non-members.
            * Sergey - we want to keep it open for everybody but understand the issues with patent.
            * Alois - non-members can participate in issue discussions and meetings and then members can make the actual pull requests. If somebody who is not part of the process makes PRs it's more complicated. End results are the same.
            * Chris - there are many people that aren't members. Will that complicate contributing to reference implementations or test suites.
            * Alois - test cases are not part of the formal specification.
        * Alois - walks through formal steps described in [2018 process document](https://www.w3.org/2018/Process-20180201/).
    * Any issues before we move forward?
        * Sergey - We need to take this draft to our legal. Likely others need to do the same since legal needs to do patent review.
            * Wendy - one of the functions of the review period is to allow for these kinds of legal reviews.
        * Victor - will the data exchange format hold us back at all?
            * No - the specs are totally independent. If it's not included now, we'd need to recharter. The main point is that we can't work outside of this charter.
            * We can always downsize the working group if we find we can't move forward on it.
* **TraceContext - what are the open issues, next steps**
    * We ended the February workshop in Seattle with agreements on names, spaces, ordering
    * The interchange semantic is another consideration. We all agreed that this is something we needed to work out. What is the understanding of folks on the call?
    * Adrian - What does draft mean in this context?
    * Don't want to rush into the semantics only to have to rework it. If we only publish header fields and such, it wouldn't be so controversial.
    * Adrian - if we only publish the format, people will guess at the semantics. It'd be honest to publish what we know as draft. It's realistic to expect things will change until cross-vendor testing works.
    * Sergey - do you believe we all agreed on the semantics as well during the workshop? I don't want to publish something if that's not what we agreed. We agreed on header name changes, etc.
    * Adrian - we can check the notes.
    * Victor - this part of the meeting was a bit rushed
    * Sergey - will publish the draft.
    * Adrian - concerned about publishing since it'll likely require folks needing to make a bunch of changes
    * Alois - we should make a note that this is in draft. People should understand that they shouldn't implement the draft expecting it not to change. If there are open items, it should be marked as TODO
    * Chris - the trace state - not clear on who owns, what motivates trace state. Looks like more baggage, hard to understand what the properties and k:v pairs are. Trying to make a basic tracer work with 128 bit IDs. Got lost in what the properties were, why a nested set of k:v pairs. Is it normal for W3c to be vague?
    * Alois - normally there's specific description about all this. For example, field with value that doesn't match requirements. We don't have this now because we're early on. It's the type of questions we should be discussing.
    * Chris - At minimum, explain the nesting of key:value pairs.
    * Adrian - things still look confusing because docs haven't been updated completely since the last workshop.
    * Sergey - should we vote on this?
    * Alois - How about we open up an issue where each vendor replies with understanding of the spec? Let's see how much agreement/disagreement in this group.
    * Agreed - we'll do this in github issue.
* **Next Meeting**
    * Next conference call is in 2 weeks.
    * Adrian will send the date

