## Review of existing PRs

* PR #86 - Too early to really know what we want -  close for now and move to an issue. 
* PR #88 - Too early to add, keep issue open and discuss during next meeting
* PR #89 - Should we rather invest in test cases?

## Review of open issues
* **Issue #7 List all the libraries that are willing to use this format**- close as we don’t have a plan to validate
* **Issue #15 Remove "hexadecimal" restriction** - Close as we have a agreed on representation
* **Issue #17 - Define the charter more precisely** - Close as it was before action charter

Wait for next meeting when creators of issues join meeting to discuss how to proceed with their issues (Adrian, Sergey, Wu Sheng)

**Proposal:** Have different labels (eg. future discussion etc. )

## Integration tests

We agreed to work on a first test suite of integration tests. We need to define in which repo to put them. Goal is to have a first testing system
by the next F2F meeting. 

## IETF Header Format

IETF has their own way to define HTTP header values. Alois to look whether we can represent Trace-Parent and Trace-State that way. 

## Meeting slot alternative

Looking for an alternative meeting slot that is more convenient for people currently having a crazy timeslot. We will then alternate the timeslots.  
