# Privacy Considerations

Requirements to propagate headers to downstream services as well as storing
values of these headers opens up potential privacy concerns. Trace vendors MUST
NOT use `traceparent` and `tracestate` fields for any personally identifiable or
otherwise sensitive information. The only purpose of these fields is to enable
trace correlation.

Trace vendors MUST assess the risk of header abuse. This section provides some
considerations and initial assessment of the risk associated with storing and
propagating these headers. Tracing systems or platforms may choose to inspect
and remove sensitive information from the fields before allowing the tracing
system to execute code that potentially can propagate or store these fields. All
mutations should, however, conform to the list of mutations defined in this
specification.

## Privacy of traceparent field

The `traceparent` field is comprised of randomly-generated numbers. If a random
number generator leverages any user identifiable information like IP address as
seed state - this information may be exposed. Random number generators MUST NOT
rely on any information that can potentially be user identifiable.

Another privacy risk of the `traceparent` field is an ability to correlate calls
made as part of a single transaction. A downstream service may track and
correlate two or more calls made in a single transaction and make assumptions
about the identity of the caller of one call based on information from another
call.

Note, both of the mentioned privacy concerns of the `traceparent` field are
theoretical rather than practical. Some services initiating or receiving a call
MAY choose to restart a `traceparent` field to eliminate those risks completely.
It is recommended to find a way to minimize the number of <a>distributed
trace</a> restarts to promote interoperability of tracing vendors. Instead,
different techniques may be used. For example, services may define trust
boundaries of upstream and downstream connections and the level of exposure any
calls may bring. For instance, only restart `traceparent` for authentication
calls from or to external services.

Services may also define an algorithm and audit mechanism to validate randomness
of incoming or outgoing random numbers in the `traceparent` field. Note, this
algorithm will be services-specific and not a part of this specification. One
example could be a temporal algorithm where a reversible hash function is
applied to the current clock time. The receiver can validate that the time is
within agreed upon boundaries, meaning the random number was generated with the
required algorithm and in fact doesn't contain any personal identifiable
information.

## Privacy of tracestate field

The `tracestate` field may contain any opaque value in any of the keys. The main
purpose of this header is to provide additional vendor-specific
trace-identification information across different distributed tracing systems.

Tracing systems MUST NOT include any personally identifiable information in the
`tracestate` header.

Platforms and tracing systems extremely sensitive to personal information
exposure MAY implement selective removal of values corresponding to the unknown
keys. This mutation of the `tracestate` field is not forbidden, but highly
discouraged. As it defeats the purpose of this field for allowing multiple
tracing systems to collaborate.

## Other risks

In implementations where `traceparent` and `tracestate` headers are included in
responses, these values may inadvertently be passed to cross-origin callers.
Implementations should ensure that they only include these response headers when
responding to systems that participated in the trace.
